alacrity#(n) an eager willingness to do something@The first three weeks at his new job, Mark worked with such alacrity that upper management knew it would be giving him a promotion.
anathema#(n) a detested person; the source of somebody's hate@Hundreds of years ago, Galileo was anathema to the church; today the church is anathema to some on the left side of the political spectrum.
apogee#(n) the highest point@The apogee of the Viennese style of music, Mozart's music continues to mesmerize audiences well into the 21st century.
apostate#(n) a person who has abandoned a religious faith or cause@An apostate of the Republican Party, Sheldon has yet to become affiliated with any party and dubs himself an independent.
arrant#(adj) complete and wholly (usually modifying a noun with negative connotation)@An arrant fool, Lawrence surprised nobody when he lost all his money in a pyramid scheme that was every bit as transparent as it was corrupt.
artless#(adj) without cunning or deceit@Despite the president's seemingly artless speeches, he was a skilled and ruthless negotiator.
attenuate#(v) to weaken (in terms of intensity); to taper off/become thinner@Her animosity towards Bob attenuated over the years, and she even went so far as to invite him to her party.
base#(adj) the lowest, class were without any moral principles@She was not so base as to begrudge the beggar the unwanted crumbs from her dinner plate. This word has other definitions but this is the most important one for the GRE.
beg#(v) to evade or dodge (a question)@By assuming that Charlie was headed to college--which he was not--Maggie begged the question when she asked him to which school he was headed in the Fall. This word has other definitions but this is the most important one for the GRE.
byzantine#(adj) intricate and complex@Getting a driver's license is not simply a matter of taking a test; the regulations and procedures are so byzantine that many have found themselves at the mercy of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
catholic#(adj) of broad scope; universal@Jonah's friends said that Jonah's taste in music was eclectic; Jonah was quick to point out that not only was his taste eclectic but it was also catholic: he enjoyed music from countries as far-flung as Mali and. Mongolia.
chary#(adj) cautious@Jack was wary of GRE words that looked similar, because they usually had different definitions; not so with chary, a word that he began to use interchangeably with wary.
choleric#(adj) prone to outbursts of temper; easily angered@While a brilliant lecturer, Mr. Dawson came across as choleric and unapproachable--very rarely did students come to his office hours.
churlish#(adj) lacking manners or refinement@The manager was unnecessarily churlish to his subordinates, rarely deigning to say hello, but always quick with a sartorial jab if someone happened to be wearing anything even slightly mismatching.
conciliate#(v) to make peace with@His opponents believed his gesture to be conciliatory, yet as soon as they put down their weapons, he unsheathed a hidden sword.
contentious#(adj) likely to argue@Since old grandpa Harry became very contentious during the summer when only reruns were on T.V., the grandkids learned to hide from him at every opportunity.
cow#(v) to intimidate@Do not be cowed by a 3,000-word vocabulary list: turn that list into a deck of flashcards!. This word has other definitions but this is the most important one for the GRE.
defray#(v) to help pay the cost of, either in part of full@In order for Sean to attend the prestigious college, his generous uncle helped defray the excessive tuition with a monthly donation.
diatribe#(n) a strong verbal attack against a person or institution@Steve's mom launched into a diatribe during the PTA meeting, contending that the school was little more than a daycare in which students stare at the wall and teachers stare at the chalkboard.
equivocate#(v) to speak vaguely, usually with the intention to mislead or deceive@After Sharon brought the car home an hour after her curfew, she equivocated when her parents pointedly asked her where she had been.
exegesis#(n) critical explanation or analysis, especially of a text@The Bible is fertile ground for exegesis--over the past five centuries there have been as many interpretations as there are pages in the Old Testament.
expansive#(adj) communicative, and prone to talking in a sociable manner@After a few sips of cognac, the octogenarian shed his irascible demeanor and became expansive, speaking fondly of the "good old days". This word has other definitions but this is the most important one for the GRE.
expunge#(v) to eliminate completely@When I turned 18, all of the shoplifting and jaywalking charges were expunged from my criminal record.
factious#(adj) produced by, or characterized by internal dissension@The controversial bill proved factious, as dissension even within parties resulted.
feckless#(adj) lazy and irresponsible@Two years after graduation, Charlie still lived with his parents and had no job, becoming more feckless with each passing day.
fractious#(adj) irritable and is likely to cause disruption@We rarely invite my fractious Uncle over for dinner; he always complains about the food, and usually launches into a tirade on some touchy subject.
hector#(v) to bully or intimidate@The boss's hectoring manner put off many employees, some of whom quit as soon as they found new jobs.
imbibe#(v) to drink or absorb as if drinking@Plato imbibed Socrates' teachings to such an extent that he was able to write volumes of work that he directly attributed, sometimes word for word, to Socrates.
indigent#(adj) poor; having very little@In the so-called Third World, many are indigent and only a privileged few have the resources to enjoy material luxuries.@(n) a poor or needy person@The indigents, huddled under the overpass, tried to start a small bonfire in the hope of staying warm.
insufferable#(adj) intolerable, difficult to endure@Chester always tried to find some area in which he excelled above others; unsurprisingly, his co-workers found him insufferable and chose to exclude him from daily luncheons out.
jingoist#(n) a person who thinks that their country should be at war@In the days leading up to war, a nation typically breaks up into the two opposing camps: doves, who do their best to avoid war, and jingoists, who are only too eager to wave national flags from their vehicles and vehemently denounce those who do not do th.
kowtow#(v) to bow or act in a subservient manner@Paul kowtowed to his boss so often the boss herself became nauseated by his sycophancy.
lascivious#(adj) lecherous; sexually perverted@Lolita is a challenging novel for many, not necessarily because of the elevated prose style but because of the depravity of the main character, Humbert Humbert, who, as an old, lascivious man, falls in love with a girl.
malfeasance#(adj) misconduct or wrongdoing (especially by a public official)@Not even the mayor's trademark pearly-toothed grin could save him from charges of malfeasance: while in power, he'd been running an illegal gambling rink in the room behind his office.
nadir#(n) the lowest point@For many pop music fans, the rap and alternative-rock dominated 90s were the nadir of musical expression.
overweening#(adj) arrogant; presumptuous@Mark was so convinced of his basketball skills that in his overweening pride he could not fathom that his name was not on the varsity list; he walked up to the basketball coach and told her she had forgotten to add his name.
pariah#(n) an outcast@The once eminent scientist, upon being found guilty of faking his data, has become a pariah in the research community.
penurious#(adj) lacking money; poor@Truly penurious, Mary had nothing more than a jar full of pennies.@(adj) miserly@Warren Buffett, famous multi-billionaire, still drives a cheap sedan, not because he is penurious, but because luxury cars are gaudy and impractical.
perfunctory#(adj) done routinely and with little interest or care@The short film examines modern perfunctory cleaning rituals such as washing dishes, doing laundry and tooth-brushing.
ponderous#(adj) weighed-down; moving slowly@Laden with 20 kilograms of college text books, the freshman moved ponderously across the campus.
precipitate#(adj) hasty or rash@Instead of conducting a thorough investigation after the city hall break-in, the governor acted precipitately, accusing his staff of aiding and abetting the criminals.@(v) to cause to happen@The government's mishandling the hurricane's aftermath precipitated a widespread outbreak of looting and other criminal activity.
prosaic#(adj) dull and lacking imagination@Unlike the talented artists in his workshop, Paul had no such bent for the visual medium, so when it was time for him to make a stained glass painting, he ended up with a prosaic mosaic.
saturnine#(adj) morose or gloomy@Deprived of sunlight, humans become saturnine; that's why in very northerly territories people are encouraged to sit under an extremely powerful lamp, lest they become morose.
sedulous#(adj) done diligently and carefully@An avid numismatist, Harold sedulously amassed a collection of coins from over 100 countries--an endeavor that took over fifteen years, and to five continents. self-
supercilious#(adj) haughty and disdainful; looking down on others@Nelly felt the Quiz Bowl director acted superciliously towards the underclassmen; really, she fumed, must he act so preternaturally omniscient each time he intones some obscure fact--as though everybody knows that Mt. Aconcagua is the highest peak in Sout.
truculent#(adj) having a fierce, savage nature@Standing in line for six hours, she became progressively truculent, yelling at DMV employees and elbowing other people waiting in line.
turpitude#(n) depravity; a depraved act@During his reign, Caligula indulged in unspeakable sexual practices, so it not surprising that he will forever be remembered for his turpitude.
untoward#(adj) unfavorable; inconvenient@Some professors find teaching untoward as having to prepare for lectures and conduct office hours prevents them from focusing on their research.
vicissitude#(n) change in one"s circumstances, usually for the worse@Even great rulers have their vicissitudes--massive kingdoms have diminished overnight, and once beloved kings have faced the scorn of angry masses.
zeitgeist#(n) spirit of the times@Each decade has its own zeitgeist--the 1990's was a prosperous time in which the promise of the American Dream never seemed more palpable.